# Leaf-Disease-Detection


### Abstract
Leaf Disease Detection can be a helpful aspect on huge area of field of crops. In our country most of the people in many countries are dependent on the agricultural productivity. This project is also conveyed us by knowing artificial intelligence is helpful in solving real life problems. This project gives us the way to find the disease caused to the leaf by using CNN algorithm and another some classification algorithms and methods. Detection of plant disease through some automatic technique is beneficial as it requires a large amount of work of monitoring in big farm of crops, and at very early stage itself it detects symptoms of diseases means where they appear on plant leaves. In order to detect the disease some steps are to be followed using image processing. Detection of leaf disease will help to farmers and as well as society in Improving the quality and production of agricultural crops. This also makes the development of artificial intelligence technology in solving real life problems in model of machine level.


### Introduction
Agriculture is just not helpful for human feeding or energy it is much more like energy and global warming. Most of the rural area doesn’t have awareness on the diseases of the planning. So, by this detective system we can help few farmers. In some of the area which are not yet developed, farmers are facing problems with the leaf diseases. To make a solution for this we are trying to build a detective system for leaf disease. To identify the disease, we need an image of the leaf which is affected. For the purpose of detecting the diseased leaf, to measure the affected area by the disease, colour of the affected area and to identify the object(leaf), image processing is used. In this we are also using neural networks to do the methodology. We can analyse the image of disease leaves by using computer image processing technology and extract the features of disease spot according to colour, texture and other characteristics from a quantitative point of view. At an equivalent time, in some countries, farmers don’t have correct facilities or maybe concept that they'll contact specialists. Because of that consulting specialists even price high still as time overwhelming too. In such condition, the advised technique proves to be helpful in watching massive fields of crops. And automatic detection of the diseases by simply seeing the symptoms on the plant leaves makes it easier still as cheaper.


### Working Project Video and Algorithms:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fJ5sa7H3L5sXiZxZ27DBpzlhpNOoZbM6/view?usp=sharing
